
= The mspire project

mspire - 'Mass Spectrometry Proteomics in Ruby' is a collection of tools for
working with MS-based proteomics data in ruby.  It seeks to provide support
for open standards (e.g., parsers for mzData, mzXML, Peptide/Protein Prophet
and the TPP) and contribute other useful functionality for working with mass
spectrometry data in ruby.

* Homepage[http://mspire.rubyforge.org/]
* {Rubyforge project page}http://rubyforge.org/projects/mspire/



== the mspire gem

Installing the mspire gem will install a


* SEQUEST data (particularly the output of Bioworks 3.2-3.3)
* mzXML
* mzData
* ProteinProphet
* Preparation of files for [obiwarp](http://obi-warp.sourceforge.net/)

Features
--------

* mzXML (version 1, 2, and 3) parsing
* mzData parsing
* bioworks .srf (binary files) reader
* read/write .sqt files
* bioworks to PeptideProphet input (pepXML files)
* lightweight APEX values parser
* histogram protein probabilities
* protein summary views with custom false ID cutoff values
* conversion to OBI-Warp input files
* portable: works across platforms

Validation by:
  * Various Decoy Database search options: Reverse/Shuffle, concatenated/separate, with various hashing options (e.g., by amino acid sequence + charge)
  * Amino acid (e.g., search for unblocked cysteines)
  * Transmembrane prediction (Phobius or TopPred)
  * Generic sample bias (e.g., low abundance/high abundance proteins)
  * Defined sample

Spectra and Spectra Identification
----------------------------------

The [MS](ms/index.html) namespace contains objects for working with mass spectra and associated file formats.

The [SpecID](spec_id/index.html) namespace contains objects for working with spectral identifications.

Warnings
--------

mspire 0.5.x is a rewrite/refactor of mspire with new features over the 0.4.x series.  It is stable but currently missing much of the 0.4.x functionality.  
 * The [rdocs online](http://mspire.rubyforge.org/rdoc) will reflect this version (always the latest released gem).  Run 'rdoc' in the base directory of your mspire gem to ensure documentation specific to your release.  

mspire is an experimental package.  As such, all versions prior to version 1.0
may contain interface changes on minor revisions (major.minor.build) (e.g.,
0.4.0 may contain interface change from 0.3.9).  Beyond version 1.0, the
versioning scheme will be strictly adhered to (no interface changes except on
major revisions).

Installation
------------

see [Install](install/index.html)

